Docs/ce 477 dataplances on ecs (#19010)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/docs/ecs/upgrade-to-dataplanes.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Upgrade to Consul dataplane architecture
description: Learn how to upgrade your existing Consul service mesh on ECS workloads to the agentless dataplanes architecture.
---

# Upgrade to Consul dataplane architecture

> This topic describes how to manually upgrade a live installation of Consul on ECS to the dataplane-based architecture with zero downtime. Since v1.0.0, Consul service mesh on ECS uses [Consul dataplanes](/consul/docs/connect/dataplane), which are lightweight processes for managing Envoy proxies in containerized networks. Refer to the [release notes](/consul/docs/release-notes/consul-ecs/v1_0_x) for additional information about the switch to Consul dataplanes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This topic describes how to manually upgrade a live installation of Consul on ECS to the dataplane-based architecture with zero downtime. Since v0.7.0, Consul service mesh on ECS uses [Consul dataplanes](/consul/docs/connect/dataplane), which are lightweight processes for managing Envoy proxies in containerized networks. Refer to the [release notes](/consul/docs/release-notes/consul-ecs/v0_7_x) for additional information about the switch to Consul dataplanes.
```

## Requirements

Before you upgrading to the dataplane-based architecture, you must upgrade your Consul servers to a version compatible with Consul ECS:

> - Consul 1.0.x and later

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Consul 1.14.x and later
```

- Consul dataplane 1.3.x and later

## Deploy the latest version of the ECS controller module

In an ACL enabled cluster, Deploy the latest version of the ECS controller module in `hashicorp/terraform-aws-consul-ecs` along with the older version of the ACL controller. Note that both the controllers should coexist until the upgrade completes. The new version of the controller only tracks tasks that use dataplanes.

## Upgrade workloads

> For application tasks, upgrade the individual task definitions to `v1.1.0`` or later of the `mesh-task` module. You must upgrade each task one at a time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For application tasks, upgrade the individual task definitions to `v0.7.0`` or later of the `mesh-task` module. You must upgrade each task one at a time.
```

```hcl
module "my_task" {
  source  = "hashicorp/consul-ecs/aws//modules/mesh-task"

>   version = "v1.0.0"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  version = "v0.7.0"
```

}
```

> For gateway tasks, upgrade the individual task definitions to `v1.1.0`` or later of the `gateway-task` module. You must upgrade each task one by one independently. ECS creates new versions of tasks before shutting down the older tasks to support zero downtime deployments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For gateway tasks, upgrade the individual task definitions to `v0.7.0`` or later of the `gateway-task` module. You must upgrade each task one by one independently. ECS creates new versions of tasks before shutting down the older tasks to support zero downtime deployments.
```

```hcl
module "my_task" {
  source  = "hashicorp/consul-ecs/aws//modules/gateway-task"

>   version = "v1.0.0"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  version = "v0.7.0"
```
